scripts/generative/audio_effect_instructions.md, before:

# SuperCollider (.sc) File Authoring Guidelines

These guidelines aim to maintain consistency and readability across the SuperCollider effect definitions (`.sc` files) in this project.

## 1. File Structure

-   **Encapsulation:** Wrap the entire script content within parentheses `(...)`.
-   **SynthDef:** Define the primary audio processing logic within a single `SynthDef(\defName, { ... })`.
    -   Use a concise, descriptive `Symbol` (e.g., `\myEffect`) for the `defName`.
-   **`.add` Call:** Immediately follow the closing brace `}` of the `SynthDef` function with `.add;` to compile and register the definition.
-   **Synth Management:** Include a `fork { ... }` block after the `SynthDef` to handle asynchronous synth creation and management. This block should typically:
    -   Wait for server readiness (`s.sync;`).
    -   Free any existing synth stored in `~effect` (`if(~effect.notNil, { ~effect.free; });`).
    -   Create a new instance of the defined Synth (`~effect = Synth(\defName, [\in_bus, ~input_bus], ~targetGroup);`). Use `~effectGroup` if that's the standard target group.
-   **Logging:** Use `.postln` sparingly for essential status messages (e.g., "MyEffect SynthDef added").

## 2. SynthDef Internals

-   **Arguments (`|...|`):**
    -   Declare all controllable parameters as arguments immediately after the `SynthDef`'s opening brace `{`.
    -   Include standard arguments: `out = 0`, `in_bus = 0`.
    -   Include a `mix = 0.5` argument for wet/dry control if applicable.
    -   Provide sensible default values for all arguments.
-   **Variable Declaration (`var`):**
    -   **CRITICAL:** Declare *all* local variables using `var varName1, varName2, ...;` in a single block *immediately* after the argument declarations. **Do not declare variables anywhere else within the function.**
-   **Signal Input:** Start the processing chain by getting the input signal: `sig = In.ar(in_bus);`. Store the original dry signal if needed for mixing later (e.g., `var dry = sig;`).
-   **Signal Processing:** Arrange UGen code logically, reflecting the intended signal flow.
    -   For complex effects with distinct stages, consider storing intermediate processed signals in local variables (e.g., `var mid_processed = ...;`) for clarity and correct routing before further processing or mixing.
-   **Mix Control:** If a `mix` argument is present, use `XFade2.ar(drySignal, wetSignal, mix * 2 - 1)` for linear crossfading between the original and processed signals.
-   **Feedback:** For internal feedback loops within a single processing block, use `LocalIn.ar` and `LocalOut.ar`.
-   **Buffered Effects:** For effects requiring audio buffering (e.g., delays, reverse effects, loopers, granular synthesis), use `LocalBuf` to allocate a buffer and `RecordBuf`/`PlayBuf` (or similar UGens like `BufRd`, `BufWr`) to write to and read from it.
-   **Signal Output:** End the main processing chain with `Out.ar(out, outputSignal);`. Ensure `outputSignal` is stereo, often `[finalSig, finalSig]` or similar.

## 3. Standard Machinery (for GUI Interaction)

Most effects include a standard block for sending data (waveforms, RMS, FFT) to the GUI. Maintain this structure:

-   **Environment Variables:** Utilize standard environment variables:
    -   `~input_bus`: Source bus for audio input.
    -   `~effectGroup`: Target group for the effect synth.
    -   `~relay_buffer_in`, `~relay_buffer_out`: Buffers for input/output waveform snippets.
    -   `~fft_buffer_out`: Buffer for FFT analysis data (if used).
    -   `~rms_bus_input`, `~rms_bus_output`: Control buses for RMS values.
    -   `~chunkSize`, `~numChunks`: For partitioning buffer writes.
-   **Buffer Writing:**
    -   Generate a `phase` signal using `Phasor.ar(0, 1, 0, ~chunkSize);`.
    -   Create a trigger `trig = HPZ1.ar(phase) < 0;`.
    -   Calculate the buffer partition index `partition = PulseCount.ar(trig) % ~numChunks;`.
    -   Write input and output signals to relay buffers:
        ```supercollider
        BufWr.ar(outputSig, ~relay_buffer_out.bufnum, phase + (~chunkSize * partition));
        ```
-   **RMS Calculation:** Calculate RMS for input and output signals:
    ```supercollider
    rms_output = RunningSum.rms(outputSig, 1024);
    Out.kr(~rms_bus_output, rms_output);
    ```
-   **Data Sending:** Use `SendReply.kr` triggered by a high-rate impulse (`kr_impulse = Impulse.kr(60);`) to send data frequently:
    ```supercollider
    SendReply.kr(kr_impulse, '/buffer_refresh', partition); // Notify GUI which buffer partition is ready
    SendReply.kr(kr_impulse, '/rms');                      // Notify GUI that RMS values are updated
    // SendReply.kr(kr_impulse, '/fft_data');               // If using FFT
    // SendReply.kr(Impulse.kr(10), '/custom_data', [...]); // For less frequent custom data
    ```

## 4. Code Style

-   **Indentation:** Use consistent indentation (e.g., 4 spaces).
-   **Naming:** Use clear, descriptive names for variables and arguments (e.g., `delayTime`, `feedbackGain`).
-   **Comments:** Add comments (`//` or `/* */`) to explain complex logic, non-obvious parameter choices, or the purpose of specific code sections.

## 5. JSON Metadata File (.json)

Alongside each SuperCollider effect (`.sc` file), a corresponding JSON metadata file (`.json`) must be created. This file describes the effect and its parameters for the user interface.

**File Naming:** The JSON filename must exactly match the SuperCollider filename, but with a `.json` extension (e.g., `my_effect.sc` and `my_effect.json`). 
Prefer `lowercase_snake_case` for actual filenames.

**Structure:**

```json
{
  "name": "User Friendly Effect Name", // e.g., "Gritty Distortion", "Shimmering Reverb"
  "description": "A brief description of what the effect does.",
  "audio": "audio/effect_filename.sc", // Path to the SuperCollider audio file
  "visual": "visual/oscilloscope.js", // Default for now
  "params": [
    // Parameters array
  ]
}
```

-   **`name` (string):**
    -   This should be a user-friendly, "pretty" name for the effect, suitable for display in the UI (e.g., "Green Machine", "Hyperdrive"). The AI should infer this from the user prompt or the `SynthDef` name, converting it to a readable title case format.
    -   While the `SynthDef` name (e.g., `\myCoolReverb`) is the technical identifier in SuperCollider, this JSON `name` is for presentation.
-   **`description` (string):**
    -   A short (1-2 sentences) description of the effect's sound or behavior.
-   **`audio` (string):**
    -   The relative path to the SuperCollider audio effect file. This should follow the format `audio/FILENAME.sc`, where `FILENAME.sc` is the name of the generated SuperCollider file (derived from the user's output filename hint, e.g., `gritty_baxandall_distortion.sc`).
-   **`visual` (string):**
    -   For all new audio effects generated by this process, this field **MUST** be set to `"visual/oscilloscope.js"`.
-   **`params` (array of objects):**
    -   This array defines the controllable parameters of the effect that will be exposed to the UI.
    -   Each object in the array represents one parameter and corresponds to an argument in the `SynthDef` (excluding standard arguments like `out`, `in_bus`).
    -   The order of parameters in this array should ideally match their declaration order in the `SynthDef` for consistency.

    **Parameter Object Structure:**
    ```json
    {
      "name": "paramName",   // Exact match to SynthDef argument name (e.g., "drive", "bass")
      "value": 0.5,          // Initial/default value (must match SynthDef default)
      "range": [0.0, 1.0]    // Array with two numbers: [minimumValue, maximumValue]
      // "type": "float",    // Type is implicitly float/numeric for ParamFader
      // "step": 0.01,       // (Future UI enhancement) Value increment step
      // "unit": "Hz",         // (Future UI enhancement) Unit label
    }
    ```
    -   **`name` (string):** The exact name of the argument as defined in the `SynthDef` (e.g., `delayTime`, `feedbackGain`, `mix`).
    -   **`value` (number):** The initial (default) value for the parameter. This **MUST** match the default value specified in the `SynthDef` arguments.
    -   **`range` (array of two numbers):** An array specifying `[minimumValue, maximumValue]` for the parameter.
    // -   **`type` (string):**
    //     -   For now, assume implicitly numeric/float. The UI (`ParamFader.js`) primarily handles continuous numerical values. 
    // -   **`min` (number):** The minimum value for the parameter. (Replaced by `range`)
    // -   **`max` (number):** The maximum value for the parameter. (Replaced by `range`)
    // -   **`default` (number or string):** The default value for the parameter. This **MUST** match the default value specified in the `SynthDef` arguments. (Replaced by `value`)

    **Standard Parameters:**
    -   If the `SynthDef` includes a `mix = 0.5` argument (for wet/dry control), its corresponding entry in the `params` array should be:
        ```json
        {
          "name": "mix",
          "value": 0.5,
          "range": [0.0, 1.0]
        }
        ```
    -   Standard arguments like `out` and `in_bus` should **NOT** be included in the `params` array.

**Example `params` entry for a `rate` argument in a `SynthDef` like `rate = 1.0` (assuming it ranges from 0.1 to 20 Hz):**
```json
{
  "name": "rate",
  "value": 1.0,
  "range": [0.1, 20.0]
}
```

**Instruction to AI:** When generating the JSON, create a user-friendly "name" for the effect. Include an `audio` field with the path `audio/THE_GENERATED_FILENAME.sc` (e.g., if the output filename is `my_cool_delay.sc`, this field should be `"audio/my_cool_delay.sc"`). For parameters, use "value" for the default and a "range" array `[min, max]`. Carefully analyze the `SynthDef` arguments to create accurate `params` entries. Infer sensible `range` values based on common usage for audio effects if not explicitly defined by the user prompt. The `value` in the JSON *must* match the default value in the `SynthDef`.

Commit message:

Enhance audio effect guidelines and prompt template for consistency. Updated SynthDef naming conventions to require lowercase snake case and match base filenames. Revised JSON structure instructions to clarify audio path requirements and added a new system prompt for effect generation.

scripts/generative/audio_effect_instructions.md, after:

# SuperCollider (.sc) File Authoring Guidelines

These guidelines aim to maintain consistency and readability across the SuperCollider effect definitions (`.sc` files) in this project.

## 1. File Structure

-   **Encapsulation:** Wrap the entire script content within parentheses `(...)`.
-   **SynthDef:** Define the primary audio processing logic within a single `SynthDef(\defName, { ... })`.
    -   The `defName` (e.g., `\my_effect_name`) MUST be a `Symbol` using `lowercase_snake_case`.
    -   This `defName` MUST precisely match the base filename (without extension) of the `.sc` file itself (e.g., if the file is `my_cool_delay.sc`, the SynthDef name must be `\my_cool_delay`).
-   **`.add` Call:** Immediately follow the closing brace `}` of the `SynthDef` function with `.add;` to compile and register the definition.
-   **Synth Management:** Include a `fork { ... }` block after the `SynthDef` to handle asynchronous synth creation and management. This block should typically:
    -   Wait for server readiness (`s.sync;`).
    -   Free any existing synth stored in `~effect` (`if(~effect.notNil, { ~effect.free; });`).
    -   Create a new instance of the defined Synth (`~effect = Synth(\defName, [\in_bus, ~input_bus], ~targetGroup);`). Use `~effectGroup` if that's the standard target group.
-   **Logging:** Use `.postln` sparingly for essential status messages (e.g., "MyEffect SynthDef added").

## 2. SynthDef Internals

-   **Arguments (`|...|`):**
    -   Declare all controllable parameters as arguments immediately after the `SynthDef`'s opening brace `{`.
    -   Include standard arguments: `out = 0`, `in_bus = 0`.
    -   Include a `mix = 0.5` argument for wet/dry control if applicable.
    -   Provide sensible default values for all arguments.
-   **Variable Declaration (`var`):**
    -   **CRITICAL:** Declare *all* local variables using `var varName1, varName2, ...;` in a single block *immediately* after the argument declarations. **Do not declare variables anywhere else within the function.**
-   **Signal Input:** Start the processing chain by getting the input signal: `sig = In.ar(in_bus);`. Store the original dry signal if needed for mixing later (e.g., `var dry = sig;`).
-   **Signal Processing:** Arrange UGen code logically, reflecting the intended signal flow.
    -   For complex effects with distinct stages, consider storing intermediate processed signals in local variables (e.g., `var mid_processed = ...;`) for clarity and correct routing before further processing or mixing.
-   **Mix Control:** If a `mix` argument is present, use `XFade2.ar(drySignal, wetSignal, mix * 2 - 1)` for linear crossfading between the original and processed signals.
-   **Feedback:** For internal feedback loops within a single processing block, use `LocalIn.ar` and `LocalOut.ar`.
-   **Buffered Effects:** For effects requiring audio buffering (e.g., delays, reverse effects, loopers, granular synthesis), use `LocalBuf` to allocate a buffer and `RecordBuf`/`PlayBuf` (or similar UGens like `BufRd`, `BufWr`) to write to and read from it.
-   **Signal Output:** End the main processing chain with `Out.ar(out, outputSignal);`. Ensure `outputSignal` is stereo, often `[finalSig, finalSig]` or similar.

## 3. Standard Machinery (for GUI Interaction)

Most effects include a standard block for sending data (waveforms, RMS, FFT) to the GUI. Maintain this structure:

-   **Environment Variables:** Utilize standard environment variables:
    -   `~input_bus`: Source bus for audio input.
    -   `~effectGroup`: Target group for the effect synth.
    -   `~relay_buffer_in`, `~relay_buffer_out`: Buffers for input/output waveform snippets.
    -   `~fft_buffer_out`: Buffer for FFT analysis data (if used).
    -   `~rms_bus_input`, `~rms_bus_output`: Control buses for RMS values.
    -   `~chunkSize`, `~numChunks`: For partitioning buffer writes.
-   **Buffer Writing:**
    -   Generate a `phase` signal using `Phasor.ar(0, 1, 0, ~chunkSize);`.
    -   Create a trigger `trig = HPZ1.ar(phase) < 0;`.
    -   Calculate the buffer partition index `partition = PulseCount.ar(trig) % ~numChunks;`.
    -   Write input and output signals to relay buffers:
        ```supercollider
        BufWr.ar(outputSig, ~relay_buffer_out.bufnum, phase + (~chunkSize * partition));
        ```
-   **RMS Calculation:** Calculate RMS for input and output signals:
    ```supercollider
    rms_output = RunningSum.rms(outputSig, 1024);
    Out.kr(~rms_bus_output, rms_output);
    ```
-   **Data Sending:** Use `SendReply.kr` triggered by a high-rate impulse (`kr_impulse = Impulse.kr(60);`) to send data frequently:
    ```supercollider
    SendReply.kr(kr_impulse, '/buffer_refresh', partition); // Notify GUI which buffer partition is ready
    SendReply.kr(kr_impulse, '/rms');                      // Notify GUI that RMS values are updated
    // SendReply.kr(kr_impulse, '/fft_data');               // If using FFT
    // SendReply.kr(Impulse.kr(10), '/custom_data', [...]); // For less frequent custom data
    ```

## 4. Code Style

-   **Indentation:** Use consistent indentation (e.g., 4 spaces).
-   **Naming:** Use clear, descriptive names for variables and arguments (e.g., `delayTime`, `feedbackGain`).
-   **Comments:** Add comments (`//` or `/* */`) to explain complex logic, non-obvious parameter choices, or the purpose of specific code sections.

## 5. JSON Metadata File (.json)

Alongside each SuperCollider effect (`.sc` file), a corresponding JSON metadata file (`.json`) must be created. This file describes the effect and its parameters for the user interface.

**File Naming:** The JSON filename must exactly match the SuperCollider filename, but with a `.json` extension (e.g., `my_effect.sc` and `my_effect.json`). 
Prefer `lowercase_snake_case` for actual filenames. This `lowercase_snake_case` base filename is also critical for the `SynthDef` name and the `audio` path within the JSON.

**Structure:**

```json
{
  "name": "User Friendly Effect Name", // e.g., "Gritty Distortion", "Shimmering Reverb"
  "description": "A brief description of what the effect does.",
  "audio": "audio/effect_filename.sc", // Path to the SuperCollider audio file
  "visual": "visual/oscilloscope.js", // Default for now
  "params": [
    // Parameters array
  ]
}
```

-   **`name` (string):**
    -   This should be a user-friendly, "pretty" name for the effect, suitable for display in the UI (e.g., "Green Machine", "Crackle Reverb"). The AI should infer this from the user prompt or by converting the `lowercase_snake_case` filename/SynthDef name to a readable title case format.
    -   This is distinct from the `SynthDef` name and the filename, which must be `lowercase_snake_case`.
-   **`description` (string):**
    -   A short (1-2 sentences) description of the effect's sound or behavior.
-   **`audio` (string):**
    -   The relative path to the SuperCollider audio effect file. This MUST follow the format `audio/FILENAME.sc`, where `FILENAME.sc` is the `lowercase_snake_case` name of the generated SuperCollider file (e.g., if the file is `gritty_baxandall_distortion.sc`, this field is `"audio/gritty_baxandall_distortion.sc"`).
-   **`visual` (string):**
    -   For all new audio effects generated by this process, this field **MUST** be set to `"visual/oscilloscope.js"`.
-   **`params` (array of objects):**
    -   This array defines the controllable parameters of the effect that will be exposed to the UI.
    -   Each object in the array represents one parameter and corresponds to an argument in the `SynthDef` (excluding standard arguments like `out`, `in_bus`).
    -   The order of parameters in this array should ideally match their declaration order in the `SynthDef` for consistency.

    **Parameter Object Structure:**
    ```json
    {
      "name": "paramName",   // Exact match to SynthDef argument name (e.g., "drive", "bass")
      "value": 0.5,          // Initial/default value (must match SynthDef default)
      "range": [0.0, 1.0]    // Array with two numbers: [minimumValue, maximumValue]
      // "type": "float",    // Type is implicitly float/numeric for ParamFader
      // "step": 0.01,       // (Future UI enhancement) Value increment step
      // "unit": "Hz",         // (Future UI enhancement) Unit label
    }
    ```
    -   **`name` (string):** The exact name of the argument as defined in the `SynthDef` (e.g., `delayTime`, `feedbackGain`, `mix`).
    -   **`value` (number):** The initial (default) value for the parameter. This **MUST** match the default value specified in the `SynthDef` arguments.
    -   **`range` (array of two numbers):** An array specifying `[minimumValue, maximumValue]` for the parameter.
    // -   **`type` (string):**
    //     -   For now, assume implicitly numeric/float. The UI (`ParamFader.js`) primarily handles continuous numerical values. 
    // -   **`min` (number):** The minimum value for the parameter. (Replaced by `range`)
    // -   **`max` (number):** The maximum value for the parameter. (Replaced by `range`)
    // -   **`default` (number or string):** The default value for the parameter. This **MUST** match the default value specified in the `SynthDef` arguments. (Replaced by `value`)

    **Standard Parameters:**
    -   If the `SynthDef` includes a `mix = 0.5` argument (for wet/dry control), its corresponding entry in the `params` array should be:
        ```json
        {
          "name": "mix",
          "value": 0.5,
          "range": [0.0, 1.0]
        }
        ```
    -   Standard arguments like `out` and `in_bus` should **NOT** be included in the `params` array.

**Example `params` entry for a `rate` argument in a `SynthDef` like `rate = 1.0` (assuming it ranges from 0.1 to 20 Hz):**
```json
{
  "name": "rate",
  "value": 1.0,
  "range": [0.1, 20.0]
}
```

**Instruction to AI:** 
1.  The SuperCollider `SynthDef` name MUST be the `CANONICAL_SNAKE_CASE_IDENTIFIER` provided in the main prompt section labeled '---CANONICAL_SNAKE_CASE_IDENTIFIER---'.
2.  When generating the JSON: 
    a.  Create a user-friendly, title-cased "name" for the effect (e.g., "Crackle Reverb"). This should be derived from the user's descriptive prompt.
    b.  The `audio` field must be the path `audio/THE_CANONICAL_SNAKE_CASE_IDENTIFIER.sc` (where `THE_CANONICAL_SNAKE_CASE_IDENTIFIER` is the one provided in the main prompt).
    c.  For parameters, use "value" for the default and a "range" array `[min, max]`.
3.  Carefully analyze the `SynthDef` arguments to create accurate `params` entries. Infer sensible `range` values based on common usage for audio effects if not explicitly defined by the user prompt. The `value` in the JSON *must* match the default value in the `SynthDef`.
